hey folks this is Terry we're here with
the local and offline collaboration call
of ipfs not as not as super strict
agenda this week but here to chat about
whatever is on people's minds in this
space so I threw a couple of links in
our agenda to articles that come to mind
these are all from the offline camp
medium publication so one that was just
posted yesterday is from RJ Steiner and
it's about tangerine and they they
basically replaced a process and I think
in Africa so in state a collection for
surveys from an educational serial and
there were literal like truckloads of
paper surveys being dealt with
originally and they used CouchDB and
pouch DB which are more traditional
offline first tools to transform that
but at the end of the article he
mentions that this works really well up
to a point like collecting collecting
data offline and then when you have a
connection syncing it up so that
everybody can see the same data is what
most offline first apps do and tools
like how she the impose TV are built to
do but when they have people in the same
school as each other on the ground
trying to get everyone set up with the
technology to start with as problematic
and that's where a decentralized tool
where I could get my get my version of
the app installed from my tools version
who's sitting next to me instead of from
a network connection so he kind of
highlights that gap like so much you can
do with traditional offline for
solutions but there are little pieces
where the decentralized web approach
would be more helpful so that's one in
kind of the data collection vein
certainly medical data collection is
hugely important here too so the article
that's up above on fighting Ebola with
JavaScript's this is also a couch TV and
pop TV one I'm not sure that there's a
decentralized angle to that but I a lot
of the people who have come to offline
camp have used how she be empowered she
be when they were fighting the Ebola
crisis so certainly
having health professionals able to
quickly see data from cases and other
places is really important
bet you can't guess I'm thinking about
that right now
and then there's an article there about
the response to there was some severe
flooding in India so this one does focus
more on some decentralized solutions to
communications I think maybe there's
various like peer to peer and mesh
networking solutions that people have
used to kind of replace cell phone
service or how whatever other messaging
platforms they would they would normally
use to let each other know they're safe
because even if there is cell phone
service it might get completely
overwhelmed during an emergency when
everyone's trying to use it um and then
the other thing is just like huge data
sets for research for example which I
could see also relating to the medical
field so max Ogden who is one of the
creators of that as in this podcast
episode that we that we recorded at
offlane camp talking about how how data
is structured specifically in a way that
was good for those scientific data sets
keeping them online in a place where you
know research communities might not have
them the money or whatever resources
they need to keep everything up to date
but you have to like to verify other
people's work my understanding is you
need the original underlying data you
have access to it to verify it so and
those are just a few ideas that I threw
in there some things that seem a little
bit relevant right now and there are
other things if you go to the offline
camp medium publication there's a tab
specifically about decentralized web
stuff where you can find more on mesh
networking and things like that there's
one on developing worlds that also tends
to have a lot of the interesting
articles about you know Medical Response
etc Hospital run is another app that's
really cool in the medical front so
those are some of the things that I'm
thinking about I don't know why - I
don't know if you have like within the
ipfs scope if you've seen things being
used for like medical data collection or
Disaster Response or any of that I think
yes so I'm from the medical imaging
space been doing oh cool 20 years yeah
and so I know a lot about healthcare
data and specifically medical imaging
but I just parse in at the last 80 that
comes from Craig marks when you're going
handle it's much easier for everyone
yes I just met him for the first time at
the desktop meeting prior this one but
yeah you know I been in medical building
20 years and left my position as CTO
back in December to find the next thing
and kind of stumble upon ipfs I think
when it comes to medical imaging taking
a constant addressable model it solves
actually every problem we have there's a
lot of problems we have within medical
imaging I think what interesting things
is that medical data is inherently
immutable you really want to destroy
anything that you you capture and in
fact from medical legal point of view
you often need to
to keep track for example medical images
you need to keep in the US you need to
keep track of them for eight years at a
minimum if it's an oncology patient or
pediatric patient need to keep it the
life the patient so the data really
lasts a long time and there it's also
quite large Lisa medical imaging use it
think a lot of the other healthcare data
isn't as big but with a medical imaging
it's huge benefits if we can employ take
advantage of the deduplication
capabilities in so so yeah I know a lot
about it be happy to share with anyone
and I've been personally working on a
project to take medical images in sort
of an IP FS actually I have an IP LD
data model on building industry an IP FS
and I'm able to import data export it
back out in the standard format and view
it using a web browser using JSP FS so
doing a lot of cool stuff there but when
it comes to offline I know that this is
the meeting here you know because
healthcare is intrinsically immutable it
does make sense to be able to collect it
on a local device and even cache it is
probably another important thing having
the most recent version of something is
obviously always ideal but you know I'd
say they kind of the rate at which the
data changes is fairly slow and so even
having access to something that's a
little bit old few seconds minutes or
even days can be hugely helpful you know
to a delivering patient care and of
course the peer-to-peer aspect of this
is also really really valuable because
especially in rural communities through
country it's just be not have the
infrastructure and so being able to
continue to operate having some data is
better than no data so I think there's a
lot of interesting things into
healthcare and now it's our current
crisis you know is something - I think
this is kind of a good time to take this
technology and move forward quickly to
me oh yeah that's really cool
do you have is the project that you're
working on now in a spot that's public
like a repo people could check out if
they're interested or there any links we
throw in the note sir it's fine if it's
not just asking it's not my goals that
actually make it all open-source but
it's currently private how's it trying
to be I'm just trying to figure out how
to do this right cool that sounds like a
really neat project um why don't tell us
about this link you added or anything
you want to talk about web NFC for
mobile near-field communication right
it's fresh from the other call so I'm
I'm a conduit for sharing links someone
has sent to me so maybe easier yeah so
like Chrome 81 shaped an original trial
of this I believe so original trial is
basically a like an alphabet of three
you always like behind sort of like a
flag you need to either register and
your website needs to send additional
header with tokens of the browser knows
that you are fine with enabling this
experimental technology on your website
or as a user you're fine with enabling
it globally
it depends depending on the techno the
new web api stat they add or experiment
with in this particular case it's weapon
FC I did not like actually read the
entire article because I just jumped
into this call but why it's interesting
for offline and local oh well you may
have two phones without any connection
to each other there may be no internet
no mobile reception you know that both
of you are using IP FS or the p2p no
nodes in your apps or you have it
installed on on the system but still how
do you like connect to each other you
you both can alike an able do no tooth
but still you don't know clear ID period
is that this like
long string of characters so this could
be a way for the p2p signaling without
any like centralized service we've been
thinking about maybe web being the
transport or like Wi-Fi direct like
setting ad-hoc hotspot for situation
when you want to like connect to each
other directly in in those situations
still there's the remains the problem of
discovery we may have the transport we
may have means of connecting to each
other but unless we know the address and
the identity of the other person we are
not able to do that in security this is
something that could I'm not sure if it
will like involuntary transfer but I
feel it could at least serve as an
option for signaling so one up or one
phone could expose a manifest with its
own addresses including local ones maybe
local hotspot if nothing else is
available and the other person would
simply like scan that phone and be able
to with significant degree of confidence
to connect to that specific node and and
get bootstrap from there so it's still
unclear probably requires going through
the API similar in similar fashion as we
did for web forward lot of but it's
really exciting that this capability
could be available on regular website at
some point this means progressive web
apps which are designed to work in
offline mode could also support this
like ad hoc pairing or discovery
between people it will I'm sure people
will come up with very exciting ideas
for like the easiest ones are like
multiplayer games when you've got
quickly or when you want to like quickly
share each other's like details somehow
but I'm really ecstatic about this like
distributed decentralized that's that's
probably the most important part that
it's like a way of doing the
decentralized signaling on mobile with
just a pro web browser so that's why I
additive to the list mostly to put it
out there it's just like any original
trial and it's unclear what's fully
possible with those API spots it's
pretty encouraging that pretty
encouraging fact that he it will at some
point landing chromium and chromium has
over 80 percent of market so the moment
that lands most of people will be able
to use it especially on mobile right
thanks I just completely spaced out on
taking notes so feel free to add oh
that's going and neat yeah what else do
people want to chat about what's on your
minds in the offline space other stuff
we've seen in ipfs lands that's
interesting for local collaboration or
things we're seeing people able to do in
general for local collaboration that we
can't yet do in ipfs why not we have to
change to make it work I have a sort of
related thing for an offline so people
are using ipfs for website hosting and
they set up DNS link so so they set up
DNS link and basically
the DNS name points at some HTTP server
that HTTP server happens to be a diva's
gateway and that way they get a pretty
nice hostname in the location bar so for
example if you go to English Wikipedia
mirror you can load it as a like a
regular website you can also load it
from HTTP gateway
the fact is it's the same gateway is the
same server it's just like the way it's
representative location bar so the
ongoing problem was it's nice I can load
it from some HTTP server which is
somewhere but the moment I load it from
my local node it's no longer like this
pretty domain in front of URL it looks
more like this it's like my local my
local IP right and then I P&S and then
there's this net domain name someone
picked or peer ID which if you don't
want to rely on DNS so what will land in
the next version of Goa TFS is something
we call subdomain gateways there are
subdomain gateways right now but those
are using custom configuration at the
enjoy next level now we will support
[Music]
gateway subdomain gateways and HTTP
proxy mode directly in Goa TFS and what
that means there will be a blog post but
for now and specifically for this for
this call is the way the nesting
websites are handled bar by actavis
compile and browser extension are bit
tricky we redirect them to local a a qfs
node so they work in offline mode
however you'll lose this security
isolation right now and people are not
able to use more advanced ap web api is
because they are
hopefully that there's single sandbox
for all websites loaded that way and
what will change it will be that with
this next release we will be able to do
something like this
so the original name or content
identifier or pure ID will be here and
then there will be a pianist or ipfs sub
domain on the localhost so it's a bit
better for user experience you get like
the name of the content root you are
actually interested in up front and from
that this entire host name will build an
origin isolation power content root so
each website will be isolated and having
that we will be able to like redirect
all the websites which have DNS linked
to local node without decreasing
security isolation and that hopefully
will make those DNS link websites much
more useful in offline environments
first right now if people are using a
website which is backed by DNS link and
they want to do something more than just
like read text they usually need to
disable that redirect so that they don't
get a different security current is
right so I believe that will be a pretty
critical long story short we will
increase the surface of cases when we
can load content locally from my local
node instead of fetching it from
arbitrary servers on the internet which
is like that plus added value for
offline use cases there will be a blog
post I promise yeah I explained it yeah
feel free
to edit my notes on that section which
I'm sure a little gobbledygook Oh what
else we can either chat about stuff now
that people are thinking about or if
there's something you'd really like to
hear about on a future call a use case
or company you've heard about that we
should try to get a speaker from you can
do some pre-planning in sort of
discussing website publishing and
content delivery networks we have people
from terminal terminal that code and I
know they're in super early stage but
some spaces they are exploring our
distributed content like distributed CD
ends which sort of like leverage let's
say they leverage JSI PFS running in the
browser like a swarm of such nodes
running the browser instead of something
like cloud flower where or other CDN
provider which it's still like it's the
century
it's like federated within that
organization but it's still under the
control of a single entity which decides
which content is blocked or not probably
too soon right now but at some point it
will be super useful to invite them to
this code I believe they were recently
on I give us All Hands call and they
gave a demo of integration with github
so just like you've got to keep your
pages you would simply part push your
website and gets published
they showed a variation which is super
sleek and is publishing type device with
DNS link so that like connects nicely to
what I mentioned before by default
there's like a DNS link and if someone
has like if its companion and note it
will upgrade people to
to that fashion nothing else comes to
mind
I'm afraid okay Chris how about you
anything in local offline collaboration
space that you wish you knew more about
sort would like to chat more about I
don't have a specific question right now
alright um yeah if you get to a point
with your project where you're
interested in giving us a demo of it we
have these calls monthly so feel free to
reach out we could certainly schedule to
do that okay awesome um cool if we don't
have other specific stuff to talk about
I'm happy to call it a day um let alone
gonna leave these notes here for a
minute for you to clean up my my
butchering and then I will share the
notes and video and such with everyone
later on but thanks thanks for showing
up I hope everybody is healthy and
hunkered down as appropriate in their
region a sense stayed sane amidst a
little chaos and an unknown here so it's
nice to see you in terms of this meeting
like what would you say
so offline club how does I TFS kind of
view that or does it deserve a team on
that or has a weave into ipfs exactly so
this is the meaning of a significant
interest group about that topic um but I
think I think it's people who are coming
some of the people who come to this
meetings who are more engaged in like
our collaboration space which includes
Lytle and Dietrich etc are the folks
within ipfs who can kind of grab the
ideas and think about how they apply and
how we can improve ipfs for certain use
cases I'm afraid I'm not the best at
doing that
you might be able to give a better a
better answer to the question than I can
it's a pretty good question good answer
pretty good question
everything is right yeah I think the
main purpose here is to like exchange
notes some people are more technical and
have like very low-level understanding
of ipfs and hippie-dippy stock other
folks are very they resonate with needs
of people in offline environment or
places where the internet connectivity
is not that the best and actually it's a
very important to have a place like this
poor folks meet and exchange notes even
to exchange links just be aware that
there's one need and that there is or
will be a technical possibility to do
something with that so that would be
that that's how I understand yeah and we
have so that the notes that are a gen RN
has all of our meeting notes and we have
these recorded calls online so if anyone
is seeing us for the first time on
recording this or Chris if you haven't
caught past past meetings you can catch
up on those if you want do to see the
kind of variety of topics that we've had
will often have a demo of an interesting
new app or someone talking about a
particular particular use case where
they're not using IP FS right now but
we've had people chatting about you know
needs of Native American communities or
various groups like that so it's mostly
a discussion space but I certainly hope
that it is sparking actionable ideas in
some folks and that they'll come back
and show us the things that they've made
so yeah yeah I think this kind of
high-level brainstorm right yeah but you
know for my project
are not with is just taking the data and
kind of burning and IPL D I best Astoria
yeah then kind of next thing would be
like how do I actually find it you
usually you have some kind of database
that you can search to find data and
that led me to orbit EB which kind of
has some offline capabilities it looks
like and some it's a lightweight
database it only scales so much but the
thing that's kind of current to me is
that seems like in it's almost like with
immutable data and you kind of have
almost everything is offline to begin
with because you're going to store it to
one node and then you know it's
immutable so it's like someone can
change it so really it seems like the
whole ipfs world is offline first
because there is no central database
there's no central thing to store and so
this kind of has a broad crust
cross-cutting you know aspect we respect
its inherent in ipfs and immutable
storage of the game it's everything kind
of begins on one node then spreads out
from there and there is no central thing
yeah I should just maybe clarify that
the term offline first as coined by the
folks at neighborhoodie originally it
doesn't mean that I guess technically
all of our data originates offline we
type it somewhere on some device but it
doesn't mean that it it doesn't mean
that we first access the thing offline
like the most common use case is that we
have that we do have a central database
but that we're making the vast
functionality the most important
functionality of our app work offline on
the individual devices so in an example
like pouch DB and CouchDB pouch TB is
your in browser database and you can be
writing data write a native writing data
offline and then once you have a
connection you would sync it to CouchDB
in the cloud where you have something
central that people are sharing and sync
it up again so that's it's there's a bit
of a misnomer there in the first part I
think of it as putting the user
experience first by making them have
access
what they the most important stuff
offline there's also a term floating
around now called local first which I
take to be a bit more in the
specifically decentralized scope the
centralization is a very as a small
niche portion of the broader offline
first audience so for whatever that's
worth
it's interesting to think about you know
I think as this offline space grows I
think I suspect we're likely gonna find
ourself thinking let's write all of our
applications this way or at least as
much as we can as opposed to right now I
think as you start a new web app you and
we have a database app server and then
your front-end
and your databases guide your
centralization piece I think as we
develop more knowledge and success in
this offline space I think it'll shift
to be let's do them again offline first
and I think like I said as I came to it
I was originally planning on using I've
kept us with some kind of database and
where I'm at right now I was like is
there some way I can use ipfs as the
database I could you know use that for
everything so it's completely
decentralized but completely work
offline and you could sync up afterwards
it seems like it'll be a specific to my
use case in fact it's kind of foreign to
fine use case for the most part but it
just seems like a good architectural
strategy if you can't do it Lytle what's
your initial response to to someone
wanting to use ipfs like a database I
feel like there would be like a gut
reaction from super IP FSC people it's
better if you're friendly it's a
key/value star ski and no I I feel it's
it's yeah it's said that the base in
that sense and a lot of people just need
a way of putting something and getting
like references to it
it's effectively glorified he value
store for many people who you sacrifice
in production and I've seen people who
simply expose just like put put like add
and cut or put and get API methods as
soon as they would exposed some end
point of CouchDB or something like that
I just feel it's more it's more database
and like framing it with just just
putting it that one box sort of like
blocks people from leveraging the fact
that you don't need to care about date
the way data is moved it's super super
important for folks even like people who
care about like docker images in in
companies where was super painful
process of making sure those images are
synchronized and available when you need
them and if I DFS we just referred to
that using CID and it's it just fetched
from the network you don't really care
from where similarly from with databases
you don't no longer likely to care about
like maintenance by direction
multi-directional synchronization I
years back I worked with CouchDB and it
was like super useful that's it had
bi-directional synchronization in ipfs
you effectively you don't really like
you've got like just in time
synchronization if you want you just
share those like references to that data
share a substantial data so it's like
much more much more flexible than the
regular data base that's what while it's
like grabs me but mostly because it may
close some some potential use cases if
we start talking about IP fastest of the
database replacement
than just like my personal pet peeve
yeah well let me clarify so I think ipfs
right now is primarily just I think for
storing files replicating I think when
you go to something like IPL D which
allows you to build essentially a data
model a Content restful data model you
can actually model a database you know
with it if you think about a database
you have a bunch of everything begins
with an empty databases and there's a
lot of transactions that go against it
that are private
each transaction gets written out to
ipfs it's a separate block you you know
you have the same coming up the
structure available as a database the
biggest issue is how do you kind of find
the head the head note of what the
current state database is or the head
head note of the transaction tomorrow
and you know I think I'll orbit DB does
use thoughts of the kind of broadcast
I mean IPS could kind of but I don't
think it's probably not designed to be
done to be update that quickly but the
point is is you can store data and you
can get it and you can build a log a
chain of things it's all in the trinsic
- so yeah I give this is not a database
file to say you could build a database
on top of it using ipfs right kill me as
your primitive okay totally and with
stuff like stuff that's on top of that
you if you like leverage things like see
our duties you could get that conflict
resolution without like centralized
points of failure which is usually
present in most of stacks people have in
one form or another yeah I think it you
know you're right I mean how many of us
have dealt with building highly
available solutions at the database
level in the application layer in key
because it's kind of built in to not
even be out of date if you're not
connected it's kind of a little
disconnected comes in but start thinking
about can I go offline first
and with your application it can solve a
lot of those problems I think yeah
totally and I feel also like nothing
like black and white context even if
context where you have some connectivity
but you it might be very spotty or you
don't have it all the time
IP fuss with stuff like I'm not sure if
graph sync landed maybe I should not
mention it but but being able to
selectively sink just like a subset of a
graph that with with the whole thing
that we just mentioned absolutely ifs
yeah totally yeah yeah I've been looking
at a graph sink and I've actually been
more engaged in the IPL D communities so
I've spun up on the selectors and
schemas and
graph sink so yeah I think there's a lot
of a lot of power in there about it as a
modeling your what you normally model a
database whether it's mando or
a document or a database or a sequel
based database you think about that as
an IPL media structure it's pretty
amazing so kind of blowing my mind of
all the Bela but you can do your you
know they'll do the features this gets
built out yeah I always have this
feeling that of like I can see the shape
of things to come but it's like always
so much needs to happen before we are
there on you just like lower level lower
levels so yeah we'll get there
eventually but it's super like like it
it's always super encouraging to find
that people like share the vision
definitely
did you like in the context of IP and
did I break or no you're fine really go
ahead okay Chris did you like in the
context of IP on the exploration did you
use your URLs in any context like for
the ideas or no yeah we are like trying
to understand potential use cases and
semantic way like Semantic Web is one of
places where your ends are used and we
probably want to register
ipfs for those like mutable references
and like you are eyes to our ends those
are the standards that we need to follow
if we want to increase adoption so it's
just curious okay so sorry will you just
define uri nur n for people who haven't
heard them yeah so your eyes are
Universal resource identifiers an
example of that is URL which is
Universal resource location so you else
a subset of your eyes and this basically
a way of addressing things a formalized
way of addressing things and your ends
are used in context where like location
do not matter what's the understand for
notation I believe one second I I had
open
let me quickly share much because I got
the examples yes so like it's a uniform
resource name I lied before but it's a
uniform resource name in the Uniform
Resource identifier has ISBN number
right so if you want to refer to some
neck assuming there's like a namespace
of other identifiers and you want to
address that you need a way of
addressing different namespaces in like
uniform way so that's why it has like
uniform and yeah books
RFC's and other stuff we probably if
people want to let's say there's a
scientific paper and someone wants to
attach or like refer to a data set or
the tools they used for creating that
paper or doing the research if they use
content addressing that's pretty useful
but often there's a certain level of
formalization needed depending on the
context some like Semantic Web projects
require they simply standardize on your
using humor and everywhere so that way
they can use all the sub namespaces in
the URL and be more confident about what
they are parsing if they let like user
to enter that identifier it's basically
like a formal formalized way of
addressing stuff without providing
location in web browsers you don't see
your URLs but you may see them in like
more specialized applications and
contexts when I hear IPL D and people
trying to be like data structures I've
seen often people experimenting with the
IDs
and in the IDS I believe they either
have a ID protocol scheme or they use
your hands that's about it
I was just like curious well you know I
have not heard of users I've only been
going to the team meeting staff for
about month Oh what they did come up
with this week's team meeting here
Volker BMX something he some kind of
open oh gee see what is this open
Geospatial some kind of mapping thing
they're about to become their standard
it wants to get see IDs or at work with
my PFS and so that may be a good using
you Lorenz and stereos and see IDs yes
want me to come up this week that is
related what you're talking about oh
yeah totally yeah yeah that's a very
very good example of that
yeah yeah he's like yeah they're only
updated every 15 years and so now he
wants to try and squeak it in somehow so
we'll work with IP LD correctly yeah
totally yeah and that that's sort of
like why it's important a lot a lot of
time those standards either exist for
decades or once something in
standardized it will be present for
decades so it's important to make it
easier for people to use ipfs intox
context yeah
super cool
I'm just looking at the calendar here
for April it looks like April 15th we're
scheduled for a next call and I think
we're good to not have it conflict with
the GUI yep we're good
cool well thanks for coming everybody as
always happy to continue any chats in
the repo if you want to and I will once
I get these notes added and the video up
I will respond to there's an issue for
the call itself so feel free to
subscribe to that if you want to make
sure you get updates on upcoming calls
um I just paste the since you heard
about this elsewhere let me taste that
for you Chris but that's alright you'll
see updates about this Cup and that's
the repo we use so if you want to start
a discussion about anything feel free to
do so in an issue there um yeah great to
see everyone and we will see you on
April 15th if you have discussion ideas
demo ideas someone you think should be
speaking on the call certainly let us
know in that thread and we can get
someone scheduled alright stay safe
everybody have a great month until we
see you again bye